# Questions 
1. Tell me about this project.
2. what is the scope or say practical use case for this project?
3. How is the conversion between different number formats handled in the code?
4. How you are handling invalid inputs and displaying error messages.
5. What are challenges faced
6. What are some future improvements can be made.

## 1. Tell me about the project.
1. This project is a web application, named as number converter. 
2. It allows users to convert numbers from one format to another like from binary format to decimal or  form octal to binary etc.
3. The purpose of the project was to provide a easy to use tool to user who wants to convert numbers from one format into another for their need.
4. It suppots binary, decimal, hexadecimal, and octal conversions.
5. Tech Stack used: `HTML, CSS and javascript`.

## 2. what is the scope or say practical use case for this project?
1. **Computer Science and Programming:** In computer science, numbers can be represented in different formats like binary, decimal, hexadecimal, and octal. A number converter can be used to convert numbers between these formats, which is often required in low-level programming, debugging, and understanding how data is stored and manipulated.

2.**Data Analysis:** In data analysis, numbers might be represented in different formats depending on the source of the data. A number converter can help standardize these numbers into a single format, making it easier to perform calculations and analysis.

3. **Telecommunications:** In telecommunications, data is often transmitted in binary format. A number converter can be used to convert this data into a more human-readable format for debugging and analysis.

4. **Education:** Number converters can be used as educational tools to help students understand different number systems and how to convert between them.

## 3. How is the conversion between different number formats handled in the code?
1. Conversion is performed using javascript builtin parseInt method and toString methods to convert between different number bases.
2. actual code is : `let output = parseInt(inputNum, inputRadix).toString(outputRadix)`
3. Radix for binary is 2, decimal is 10, octal is 8, hexadecimal is 16. It represents the total digits used in a number system to represent it.

# 4. How you are handling invalid inputs and displaying error messages.
1. The project uses a combination of HTML form validation and JavaScript validation to handle user input.
2. As soon an user click the submit form to convert the numbers, I am validating all data using a javascript function. 
3. This function checks various constraints like input are not emptys, from and to field are valid and not same etc. If any constrain is failed, I am displaying the error message using javascript dom api.

## 5. What are challenges faced 
1. As this is my first web based project, I faced difficulties for the screen preview in various screens. Later I learned about
media quieries and solved that.
2. I also faced some difficulties in javascript functions and dom.


## 6. What are some future improvements can be made.
1. Adding support for more number formats.
2. Improving the user interface with a modern UI library or framework.
3. Adding unit tests to ensure the conversion functions work correctly.
4. Implementing a history feature that keeps track of the user's past conversions.

## 7. What is complete flow of project.

### 7.1. First there is `index.html` file which contains a form and three button:
1. convert 
2. reset
3. swap 

### 7.2. Using javascript dom api, all three button are attached a click handler method. So mainly we have 3 main method, handling 3 action possible in our application.
1. `convertButton.addEventListener("click", convert);`
2. `resetButton.addEventListener("click", reset);`
3. `swapButton.addEventListener("click", swap);`

### 7.3. Understand the convert() function 
1. It is binded to click handler for convert button. So, it will run as soon as someone will click the button.
2. At first, it is calling `event.preventDefault()` to stop default behviour of form submit button click in html. Default behviour is that as soon as someone click the submit button of form, a request will be made to url specified in form tag. Since we don't want that form data sent to another url, we are canceling this default behaviour using `event.preventDefault` 
3. Then it is calling a method `isValidData()` to check that data is valid. if data is not valid, we are displaying the error message to user using dom api and stop the code execution. If it is valid we are moving forward.
4. Now since data is valid, we are getting the all 3 input field's value using javascript dom api and storing in variable.
5. Calling the `performConversion()` function, it takes the input fields and convert from one type to another and will return ans.
6. At the end, we are adding the ans in index.html using javascript dom api.

### 7.4. Understand the swap() function
1. It is binded to click handler for swap button. So, it will run automatically as soon as user will click swap button.
2. At first, it is calling `event.preventDefault()` to stop default behaviour of browser when a form submit button is clicked.
3. It read the from filed value and to filed value using javascript dom api.
4. Then it swap the value of from field and swap field.
5. At the end it reset the answer field.


### 7.5. Understand the reset() function
1. It is binded to click handler for reset button. So, it will run automatically as soon as user will click reset button.
2. It simply using javascript dom api, reseting the all 3 input fields and answer fields.