# What is ADO.NET?
- ADO.NET stands for ActiveX Data Objects which is a Microsoft Technology.
- Main job that ADO.NET handles is Data Management.
- It is used for retrieving, updating, saving, deleting, managing data in database.
- ADO.NET is a databridge between our application and database.
- IT has a rich set of classes, methods and interfaces that allow you to handle data in the database effectively and effeciently.

# ADO.NET Data Providers
- `System.Data.SqlClient` : used to connect with SQL server Database.  
- `System.Data.OleDb` : used to connect with SQL server, Oracle, Microsoft Jet.
- `System.Data.Odbc.` : used to connect with SQL server, Oracle, Microsoft Databses(.mdb).
- `System.Data.OracleClient` :  used to connect with Oracle Databases.
- `System.Data.EntityClient` : provides data access for Entity Data Model(EDM).

# Core Components of .Net Data providers
- `Connection` : used to connect a database. base class is DbConnection.
- `Command` : executes sql query against the datasource. base class is DbCommand.
- `DataReader` : reads data from the datasource. It access data read only and forward only. base class is DbDataReader.
- `DataSet` : creates a copy of your database in your client machine locally.
- `DataAdapter` : fills data sets with the data available in Data Source and update the data source with the data sets. base class is DbDataAdapter.

# The Connection Object:
- it is used to connect your apllication to data database. requires connection string to make and open connection to the database.
- `SQLServer` : sql connection
- `OLE DB Server` : Oledb connection
- `ODBC` : ODBC connection
- `Oracle` : Oracle connection

# Connection String :
- It contains all the required information that is required to connect to a data source like server name, database name, password, username etc. It is just a single line string that is used by Connection Object to connect the database.


