# Contents
-  Ip adress kiu aur kya hai.
-  Port kya hai aur kiu.
-  Url kya hai.
-  Url k components
-  Dns server

# Ip Adress:
- For sending a request a client must know thw adress of the server and server also must know the adress of the client to respond.
  So the adress of the computer is called the `Ip Adress`(Internet Protocol Adress). 
- Ex- 172.217.26.273 this numbers can range between 1-255.
- Total Ip Adress 2^32 = 4294967269
- Two computers are not connected directly, it is connected with the routers

## Dns:
- Suppose we want google to open. Now how our computer gets the ip adress of google by its name? For this there is `DNS(Domain Name System) Server` which has its own ip adress . Google.com is the domain name, now dns server change the domain name into it's ip adress.

# Port:
- Client send the request to the server computer, where many  applications are running like web application, files application. Now how the 
client program will understand in which process they have to send the request. So, we assign numbers to the process. 
- Assign a number into each process is called a `Port Number`.
- Each application in a server has its own unique port number.
- The range of port number is 16 bit. 0-65535 (integers).

# Url:
- When we open a link in internet the link we get is called `URL(Uniform Resourse Locator)`
- Each page has its unique page adress or url.

## Url Components:
### 1. Protocols
- System of rules used for transmitting data and communicating devices.ex- htp: not secure, https: secured and encrypted
### 2. Domain name
- Dns server access the domain name and give the ip adress of it.
### 3. Root
- the path directory