# What is software engineering?
-- Software engineering is defined as the process of identifying user needs, then designing, creating and testing software to meet those requirements. 
   It is a discipline of engineering concerned with the growth of software products by the use of well-defined scientific concepts, methodologies, and procedures.
   
# What is the main differences between a computer program and computer software?
-- The key difference between software is a collection of several programs used to complete tasks, whereas a program is a set of instructions expressed 
   in a programming language. A program can be software, but software the vice-versa is not true. Software also contains documentation, user guides on 
   how to use it and not only program. 

# What is white box testing?
-- White box testing is a method of software testing that tests, internal structures or workings of an applications, as opposed to its functionality.
   In WBT, an internal perspective of the system is used to design test cases.

#  What is black box testing?
-- Black box testing is technique of software testing which examines the functionality of software without peering into its internal structure or coding.

# What is Unit Testing?
-- Unit Testing is the process of checking the small pieces of code to ensure that the individual parts of the program works properly on their own.

#  What is Integration Testing?
-- Integration Testing is conducted to evaluate the compliance of the system or component with specified functional requriments. It occurs after unit testing 
   and before system testing.

# What is System Testing?
-- System testing is a level of testing that validate the complete and fully integrated software product.

# Difference  between Unit Testing and Integration Testing.

## Unit Testing
      a. Each module of the software is tested separately.
      b. Tester knows the internal design of the software.
      c. Performed first of all testing processes.
      d. It is white box testing.
      e. Performed by developer.
## Integration Testing
      a. All modules of the software are tested combined.
      b. Tester doesnot know the internal design of the software.
      c. Performed after unit testing and before system testing.
      d. It is black box testing.
      e. Performed by tester.

# Difference between Unit Testing and System Testing.

## Unit Testing
     a. Each modules of the software is tested separately.
     b. Performed by developers.
     c. Focuses on functional verification.
     d. Follows the specification of modules.
     e. Also called white box testing.
## System Testing
     a. Is done to check whether the software or product meets the specified requirements or not.
     b. Performed by developers and testers.
     c. Focuses on system validation.
     d. Follows the requirements specifications.
     e. Also called black box testing.

# Describe SDLC in brief.

## The Software Development Life cycle(SDLC) is a number of fundamental phases that teams must follow in order to produce and deliver high-quality software. Software typically goes through the following phases.

### Requirements Gathering
The team identifies, collects, and defines core issues, requirements, requests and customer expectations related to the software applications or service during this stage of the project. Gathering software specification, create a through strategy, documentation, issue tracking and project or product planning, including allocating the resources, are some tasks done during this phase.
### Software design
The team makes software design decisions regarding the architecture and make the software solution throghout this design phase of development.
### Software Development
 Teams develop software solutions based on the design decissions made during earlier stages of the project.
### Testing and Integration
Software is packaged and tested to ensure quality . Quality assurance, often known as testing, ensures that the solutions deployed fulfil the specified quality and performance criteria.
### Deployment
The software is installed in a production setting. The gathered, designed, built, and tested work is shared with the software services customers uses.
### Operation and Maintenance
The software is installed in a production setting. The coork is shared with the software service's customers and users.

# AGILE MODEL:
1.  Agile Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) is a methodology that prioritizes iterative progress for development.
2. In Agile, we incrementally add feature in a sprint.
3. Spring is a short duration of time (2-4 weeks).
4. Steps are:

- 1. Requirements: The product owner creates a prioritized wish list called a product backlog.
- 2. Design: The team selects a small chunk from the top of the product backlog, a sprint backlog, and decides how to implement those pieces.
- 3. Development: The team has a certain amount of time, a sprint (usually two to four weeks), to complete its work.
- 4. Testing: Regularly, the team meets to assess its progress in a daily scrum.
- 5. Deployment: At the end of the sprint, the work should be potentially shippable: ready to hand to a customer, put into a production environment, or demonstrate to stakeholders.
- 6. Review: The sprint ends with a sprint review and retrospective to review the work that was done and lessons learned.

5. Advantages are flexible, you can add changes or prirotiy very fastly.

6. disadvantage is longer time duration to plan, more meetings for review.

# SCRUM MODEL:
1.  Scrum is a framework that implements Agile principles in a specific, structured manner.
2. It provides a set process for creating and managing iterations (sprints), handling changes, and delivering quality products.

# Jira:
- Jira is a software application developed by the Australian software company Atlassian that allows teams to track issues, manage projects, and automate workflows.