# C#

## Fetures:
- These are the major features of C#. 
- It is simple, fast as per their performance beat. 
- Object oriented, type safe. type support variables and their declarations are available.
-  Interoperability, scalable, rich library, as well as it supports modern aspects of programming language.

## Output
- `Console.WriteLine("Hello World");`
 - It will write the output and comes the cursor to next line...but we cannot read it.
- `Console.ReadLine();`
 - Now we can see and read the Hello World.
- `Console.Write("Hi");`
 - It will print Hi and cursor remains in the same line.

## Comments
- Use // to write  single line comments.
 - `// Important tips`
- Use /* ...*/ for multiple line comments.
 - `/* something about c#*/`

## Variables
- int, float, char(Character), double, bool(boolean), String
- We have to write `float a = 3.4F;` same as `Double b = 3.7D;`
 - We are writing like that beacause if we dont write F or D then there will be compile error directly.

## Data Type
- C# has a unified type system. This unified type system is called Common Type System (CTS).

- A unified type system implies that all types, including primitives such as integers, are subclasses of the System.Object class. For example, every type inherits a ToString() method.

- CTS separates data types into two categories:
   - Reference types
   - Value types

## Trick: For comment out select the line then ctrl+k+c

## Type Casting:
- There ae two types typecaeting.
  - 1. Implicit - compiler do by own
  - 2. Explicit - we have to do it. ex: `int a = (int) 8.5; // result will be 8`
  - There are some build-in methods also. like Convert.ToString();.....etc

## Taking User Input
- ```java
  Console.WriteLine("Enter your name"); // Write the string
  var name = Console.ReadLine(); // store the input in name var
  Console.WriteLine("Hey Hello " + name); // concat the name var 
  Console.ReadLine(); // Read the previous line
  ```

## Operators
- 1. Arithmetic Operators
     - +, -, *, /
- 2. Assignment Operators
     - =, <=, >=, 
- 3. Logical Operators
     - && , ||
- 4. Comparison Operators
     - ==

## Math Class
- ```java
   int a = Math.Max(12, 15);
   Console.WriteLine(a);
  ``` 
- same as Min(a,b) returns the minimum number.
- Sqrt(a) returns the square root.

## Size
- a.Length // note that L should be capital

## UpperCase & LowerCase
- a.ToUpper() : whole string becomes in uppercase
- a.ToLower() : whole tring becomes in lowercse

## String Concat
- 

## If-Else
- ```java
   int age = 18;
   if (age > 21)
   {
      Console.WriteLine("You are ready to marry.");
   }
   else if(age == 18)
   {
      Console.WriteLine("you are just an adult");
   }
   else
   {
      Console.WriteLine("You are not ready for marry.");
   }
     Console.ReadLine();
  ```

## Switch case:
- ```java
   int roll = 5;
   switch (roll)
   {
    case 1:
        Console.WriteLine("You are the first girl in your class.");
        break;
    case 2:
        Console.WriteLine("You are the second.");
        break;
    default:
        Console.WriteLine("Enjoy!");
        break;
  }
   Console.ReadLine();
  ```

## Loops

### while loops
- ```java
   int i=0;
        while(i<5){
            Console.WriteLine (i);
            i++;
        }
        Console.ReadLine();
  ```
### do-while loop
- ```java
  int i=0;
        do{
            Console.WriteLine (i);
            i++;
        }while(i<5);
        Console.ReadLine();
  ```
### for loops
- ```java
  for(int i=0; i<5; i++){
            Console.WriteLine (i);
        }
        Console.ReadLine();
   ```

## Arrays:
- 



## Something about .Net
- .Net is a framework, meaning that it is a complete tool by which one can create, run, debug a c# project.
- It provides all the things, like
   - 1. Compiler(it creates a .exe fie in bin folder)
   - 2. Library(many inbuilt function like WriteLine(), ReadLine() are here, where the .Net sdk provides the library to us.)
   - 3. Run time engine(At last the .exe file made in the bin folder, compiler runs it in our laptop by the run time environment)

- Now .Net is a software so to communicate with it there are some commands.
- By using .Net we can create many types of project
   - 1. Console Project(Taking input from console and taking output from console)
   - 2. Web App(Website)

## Top Level statements
- Top-level statements in C# are a feature that allows developers to write code directly at the root of a file, without having to wrap it in a class or a method. The main method is the entry point of the program, but with Top-level Statement, we don’t have the main method. We can have only one Top-level Statement in class.

## What is Synchronous and Asynchronous?
- Synchronous sometimes referred to as sync and asynchronous, also known as async and these are two types of programming models.
-  Synchronous is known as a blocking architecture and is idle for programming reactive system. 
-program wait for method to complete before continuing to execute the next line of code. That is what it is also known as blocking architecture.

- Asynchronous programming is a multithreaded model that's most applicable to networking and communication. And this is also known as a non blocking architecture, which means it does not block further execution while one or more operations are in progress.

# How C# code runs?
- When you execute a C# program on a computer, the process involves several steps:

 ## 1. Compilation:
- You write your C# code using a text editor or an integrated development environment (IDE) like Visual Studio.
The C# compiler translates your source code into an intermediate language known as Common Intermediate Language (CIL) or Microsoft Intermediate Language (MSIL).
The compiler generates an assembly file (with a .dll or .exe extension) containing the compiled code.
## 2. Intermediate Language (IL) and Assembly:
- The assembly file contains the compiled CIL code, which is platform-independent.
The assembly file can be distributed and executed on any system that has a compatible Common Language Runtime (CLR).
## 3. Common Language Runtime (CLR):
- The CLR is a part of the .NET Framework or .NET Core runtime environment, depending on the version of .NET you are using.
When you run your C# program, the CLR takes over the execution process.
## 4. Just-In-Time (JIT) Compilation:
- The CLR's Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler translates the CIL code into native machine code specific to the computer's architecture.
This compilation process occurs at runtime, just before the program is executed.
## 5. Execution:
- The native machine code is executed by the computer's hardware.
The program follows the logic and instructions you've written in your C# code, performing the specified operations.
## 6. Memory Management:
- The CLR handles memory management, including memory allocation and deallocation.
Garbage Collection is a part of this process, automatically reclaiming memory that is no longer in use to prevent memory leaks.
## 7. Exception Handling:
- C# provides robust support for exception handling.
If an error or exceptional condition occurs during program execution, your code can include exception-handling mechanisms to gracefully manage and recover from these situations.

# .NET Architecture Components
* There are many frameworks included in .NET 6.0
    * A framework are just predefined classes and libraries to help us start an application
    * One framework we will be using in the future is ASP.NET (Used to create Web Apis)
## SDK vs Runtime
### SDK
* Software Development Kit
* Includes everything we need to build and run a .NET application
    * Such as Command-Line interface commands to create our projects as well as a bunch of other functionalities
* SDK includes Runtime as well why? Well when you develop an application you of course need to run it to be able to test if everything is working properly
### Runtime
* It includes all the resources we need to run existing .NET application
* A lot less storage required to download and install
* Mostly useful for end-users (people who will be using our application)

# Common Language Infrastructure (CLI)
* This is the  infrastructure of .NET on how it is able to write your application in numerous programming language beyond C# and for your application to be run on any operating system
## General structure of the .Net
* .Net - when you instal .Net sdk you get
    * **CLR**
        * CLI - Common Language Infrastructure (**.Net Languages**)
            * CLS
            * CTS
        * Garbage Collector - dispose unused objects of a program
        * JIT Compiler - to compile your IL to machine native code (binary code), its very fast
    * **Libraries**
    
## CLS
* Common Language Specification
* It has defined rules and restrictions that every langauge must follow for it to be able to run the .NET framework. Eg rules like Arrays index should start from 0, the langauges should be OOP.
* Essentially a standardization to make sure a language won't do anything that will make it incompatible with .NET framework
## [CTS](https://www.c-sharpcorner.com/blogs/what-are-cts-and-cls-in-net)
* Common Type System
* Provides a library of the basic value data types
* It is a standardization of data types to ensure every language will follow the same datatype
    * Ex: int in C# is the same 32-bit memory as the int in Visual Basic
* Helps create **Language Interoperability**
    * Fancy way of saying .NET has the capability to develop application using two or more programming languages
    * You can create apps using Visual Basic, C#, J# (Java-like language that can run in .NET), etc.
        * NEVER SAY JAVA ITSELF J# IS NOT JAVA
## VES
* Run-time system of CLI that provides all the tools it needs to be able to execute your application
### CLR
* Common Language Runtime implements VES so anything in VES, CLR also has it plus more
* Essentially, it is .NET's version of VES
* Run-time environment that provides services that make the development process easier
* Some servies it includes:
    * Automatic memory management (older languages you have to manually release unused resources)
    * JIT compilation (Just-inTime compilation that involves compliation during execution for optimization)
        * It just means any new compile code gets executed immediately, it doesn't have to wait until your entire code has been compiled to run your app
    * Exception handling support
    * Security against vulnerable code, like you cannot run a malicious .net code in your machine taken from internet.

# Application Architecture
* A way for us to group our code just like how we group our files by putting them in folders
## Separation of Concern
* The fancy way of saying it is a concept of organizing our code
* We want our code to follow a certain theme and all the code are grouped together to do a certain functionality
* We do this by leveraging classes and other grouping mechanisms to group code and logic together
* This is a first but **important** step to writing readable, extendable, and maintainable code.

## Classes
* They are the building blocks of your code
* They are the blueprints to creating objects that you process in your program
## Namespace
* Logical grouping of classes that follow a certain theme of functionality
* To utilize the classes located in a different namespace, you must use the 'using' keyword
## Project
* They contain all the files that are compiled into an executable, library, website, etc.
* There are different types of projects that are responsible at creating one thing like how a console project is a great starting point of your application while class library projects are great at adding more customize functionalities you want in your application
* A way you know a folder is a project if you notice an important file usually dictated as **(folder name).csproj** they contain key information that will configures your project and also what your project will depend on
## Assembly
* They contain all the files that are actual executables
* These files will differ depending on what operating system you are using but as for windows, it will be .exe and .dll files
* If you open the auto-generated bin folders, you can file the assembly files located there
* **So main difference with projects are that projects are the .cs files and .csproj and other configurations while assembly is the actual files that gets run since that is what your operating system understands**
## Solution
* The final grouping mechanism in that it will group multiple projects as one application
* They are the final packaging of your application
## - [C# Program Structure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/fundamentals/program-structure/)

- [Namespace](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/members)
    - [Types](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/members) - Eg class, structs, enums, delegates, interface
        - [Members of Types](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/members)- Eg methods, properties, variables, constructors, events etc...

# MVC Aplication structure
- 1. App_Data: All data which is used to read and write in the application.
- 2. App_Start: Here you all put the configuration file.
- 3. Content: It stores images, css etc.
- 4. Controllers: Here you put all the controllers.
- 5. Fonts: Custom fonts used by bootstrap.
- 6. Models: This folder contains models.
- 7. Scripts: Here we keep scripts means js file.
- 8. Views: Here we keep all views means html code.


# Controller:
- Controller are .cs file which reside in controller folder. Controller are used to handle browser incoming http request
get data from models (if required), provide data to corresponding view or request (directly) and generate response.
- one of the main pillar of MVC(C - Controller)

## Role of Controller:
- work with user input(or browser request)
- Play an important role in  the flow of the application by handling incoming request and provide data 
in corresponding view or to the browser request.

## Add a new controller?
- Open view then solution explorer then right click on controller folder.
- Choose Add -> Controller
- Choose MVC 5 Controller - Empty or other templates as per requirements.
- click on Add
- On new window enter controller name (dont remove controller postfix)
- Click on Add
- This will add a blank controller in our project.

## What are action methods?
- A method inside a controller is called as action methods.
- Default return type of Action method is called Action result.
- Only a public method can be accessed from http request.
- By default all action methods are GET.
- An action method can return view, partial view, File, JSON, string etc.

## Make call from browser
- YourDomain/ControllerName/ActionMethodName

## Parameters in Action Method
- It is used to get Data which is sent to the URL.
- Nullable parameter - (int? code = null)

# View
- One of the main pillar f MVC(v-view)
- .cshtml file (c sharp + html)
- UI of application
- Everything which is visible to the user on the browse is view.

## Why view is required?
- To make your application interactive.
- To use html and other client side framework.
- View are added for each action method.
- ActionMethod return type should be ActionResult or ViewResult.

## Call view from browser
- In MVC browser cannot directly call view.
- Every call must go through controller.
- Browser even dont even know that it is calling the view or something else. Because its a job of action method.
If action method is returning  a view then browser will display the content.

## How Controller find a view?
- First it search the corresponding view folder(same name as controller name)
- Then it goes to shared folder
- 
