# C# Opps
- C++ is an object-oriented programming language.

## OOPs: 
- Object Oriented Programming is a methodology or paradigm to design a program using classes and objects.

- Advantage of OOPs programming model:
    -  Using OOPs we can quickly develop our application as it is very easy to relate programming objects with real world objects.
    -   Increase security of data members using concept of encapsulation
    -   Provide features to reuse code using inheritance, so easy to maintain.  


## Class: 
-  It is a user-defined data type which defines its properties and its functions. Class is the only logical representation of the data.
      For example, Human being is a class. The body parts of a human being are its properties, and the actions performed by the body parts
      are known as functions. The class does not occupy any memory space till the time an object is instantiated.

-  syntax:
       `<access speicifier> class <className> {
            // code of this class
        }` 


## Object: 
-  It is a run-time entity. It is an instance of the class. An object can represent a person, place or any other item.
      An object can operate  on both data members and member functions. 
-  When an object is created using a new keyword, then space is allocated for the variable in a heap,
      and the starting address is stored in the stack memory.


### Create an Object
- ```java
  class MyClass {       // The class
  public:             // Access specifier
    int myNum;        // Attribute (int variable)
    string myString;  // Attribute (string variable)
  };

  int main() {
  MyClass myObj;  // Create an object of MyClass

  // Access attributes and set values
  myObj.myNum = 15; 
  myObj.myString = "Some text";

  // Print attribute values
  cout << myObj.myNum << "\n";
  cout << myObj.myString;
  return 0;
  }
  ```


## Members of class
-  A class contains 2 members.
     -   i. Data (variables)
     -   ii. methods

## type of members 
-  Each variables and method is either belongs to instance or class.
-  instance variable is available to only a single particualr instance.
-  `// declare
    int a; float b; String name;
    void methodName(){
    }`  

-  `// access (read value)
    obj.a 
    obj.methodName();`

-  `// set 
    obj.a = newValue;` 

- class members(variable, method) is available to all instance
    - // declare  
       `static int a=2; static String schoolName = "MCET";
        static int add(){}, static void main() {};` 

    - // access (read)
        `ClassName.a, ClassName.schoolName;
        obj.a, obj.schoolName (not recommended)`

### Methods
- To define a function outside the class definition, you have to declare it inside the class and then define it outside of the class.
  This is done by specifiying the name of the class, followed the scope resolution `::` operator, followed by the name of the function:
- ```java
  class MyClass {        // The class
  public:              // Access specifier
    void myMethod();   // Method/function declaration
  };

  // Method/function definition outside the class
  void MyClass::myMethod() {
  cout << "Hello World!";
  }

  int main() {
  MyClass myObj;     // Create an object of MyClass
  myObj.myMethod();  // Call the method
  return 0;
  }
  ```


## this keyword 
- Inside instance method (any method which is not static),java provides a special variable this which refers to current obj.
- use?
    - to read and set instance variables.
    - obj.varName;
    - obj.varName = newValue;

       - `void anyInstanceMethod(){
            this.varName // read
            this.varName = newValue; //set
        }` 


# Constructor
- Constructor is a special method which is used to initiliase an object. i.e this is a spcial method which will automatically 
    called when an object of that class is created using new keyword.
- It does not return anything like other methods.
- It must have same name as of class name.

- ```java
  class MyClass {     // The class
  public:           // Access specifier
    MyClass() {     // Constructor
      cout << "Hello World!";
    }
  };

  int main() {
  MyClass myObj;    // Create an object of MyClass (this will call the constructor)
  return 0;
  }
  ```

 - we can create as many Constructor as we want, condition is each Constructor's argument must be different.

    - default Constructor
        - In java, if we don't define any Constructor then java provided us a Constructor which does nothing
        - ClassName();
        - if you write atleast one Constructor then it will not provide you default Constructor.

# 4 Basic pillars of oops 
1. Inheritance
2. Encapsulation
3. Abstraction
4. Polymorphism



# Encapsulation :
-  Encapsulation is the process of combining data and functions into a single unit called class.
        In Encapsulation, the data is not accessed directly; it is accessed through the functions present inside the class.

-  In simpler words, data members (variables) of the class are kept private and public, getter and setter methods
        are provided to manipulate these attributes. Thus, encapsulation makes the concept of data hiding possible.
        (Data hiding: a language feature to restrict access to members of an object, reducing the negative effect due to dependencies.
    - e.g. "protected", "private" feature in Java). 

- Better control of class members (reduce the possibility of yourself (or others) to mess up the code)
- Fields can be made `read-only` (if you only use the get method), or `write-only` (if you only use the set method)
- `Flexible:` the programmer can change one part of the code without affecting other parts
- Increased security of data

### Banking System:
-  In a banking system, customer account details like balance and account number are encapsulated within a class. External access to these attributes is limited to specific methods, ensuring data integrity.
### Smartphone: 
- Smartphone manufacturers encapsulate the hardware components (e.g., camera, screen) within classes. The user interacts with these components through well-defined methods (e.g., taking a photo). 


- ```java
   class Person
  {
    private string name; // field
    public string Name   // property
    {
      get { return name; }
      set { name = value; }
    }
  }

  class Program
  {
    static void Main(string[] args)
    {
    Person myObj = new Person();
    myObj.Name = "Liam";
    Console.WriteLine(myObj.Name);
    }
  }
  ```




# Inheritance:
- Inheritance is a feature in which one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of its parent object automatically. 
        In such a way, we can reuse, extend or modify the attributes and behaviors which are defined in other classes. 

- In C#, the class which inherits the members of another class is called derived class and the class whose
          members are inherited is called  base class. The derived class is the specialized class for the base class.
- To inherit from a class, use the `:` symbol.
- It is useful for `code reusability:` reuse fields and methods of an existing class when you create a new class.

### Animal Kingdom: 
- In a virtual zoo application, you might have a base class "Animal." From there, you can create subclasses like "Mammal," "Bird," and "Reptile," each inheriting common traits like "eat" and "sleep."

- Types of Inheritance : 
 ## 1. Single inheritance : 
- When one class inherits another class, it is known as single level inheritance 

## 2. Hierarchical inheritance : 
- Hierarchical inheritance is defined as the process of deriving more than one class from a base class. 

## 3. Multilevel inheritance :
-  Multilevel inheritance is a process of deriving a class from another derived class. 

## 4. Hybrid inheritance : 
- Hybrid inheritance is a combination of simple, multiple inheritance and hierarchical inheritance. 

## 5. Multiple Inheritance:
-  when child class inherits from more than one class. 
      - `class Child extends Parent1 extends Parent2 {}` 
      -  This is not supported in C#.

- ```java
  class Vehicle  // base class (parent) 
  {
    public string brand = "Ford";  // Vehicle field
    public void honk()             // Vehicle method 
    {                    
      Console.WriteLine("Tuut, tuut!");
    }
  }

  class Car : Vehicle  // derived class (child)
  {
    public string modelName = "Mustang";  // Car field
  }

  class Program
  {
    static void Main(string[] args)
    {
    // Create a myCar object
    Car myCar = new Car();

    // Call the honk() method (From the Vehicle class) on the myCar object
    myCar.honk();

    // Display the value of the brand field (from the Vehicle class) and the value of the modelName from the Car class
    Console.WriteLine(myCar.brand + " " + myCar.modelName);
    }
  }
  ```




# Polymorphism:
 -  Polymorphism is the ability to present the same interface for different underlying forms (data types).
         With polymorphism, each of these classes will have different underlying data.
         Precisely, Poly means ‘many’ and morphism means ‘forms’.
- Polymorphism in C# is beneficial because it promotes code reusability, flexibility, and maintainability, 
enabling developers to write more adaptable and scalable software by treating objects of different types uniformly 
through a common interface or base class. 

### Animal Sounds:
-  In a virtual pet game, you can have a variety of animals—dogs, cats, and birds. Each animal makes a sound when you interact with it. Polymorphism lets you call a "makeSound" function on any animal object, producing the appropriate sound based on the animal's class.

 ### Types of Polymorphism --
 1. Compile Time Polymorphism (Static) - Method Overloading
 2. Runtime Polymorphism (Dynamic) - Method Overriding

### Compile Time Polymorphism : 
- The polymorphism which is implemented at the compile time is known as compile-time polymorphism. 
                                       Example - Method Overloading 
    #### Method Overloading : 
    - Method overloading is a technique which allows you to have more than one function with the
      same function name  but with different functionality. Method overloading can be possible on the following basis: 
     1. The type of the parameters passed to the function. 
     2. The number of parameters passed to the function.


 - ```java
       class Student {
                        String name;
                        int age;
                        public void displayInfo(String name) {
                        System.out.println(name);
                        }
                   public void displayInfo(int age) {
                   System.out.println(age);
                   }
                   public void displayInfo(String name, int age) {
                   System.out.println(name);
                   System.out.println(age);
                   }
                }
    ```   

# Note: 
- Case 1: parameter and return type different..so overloading possible...because we have to see the parameters not the return type.
- Case 2: parameter same return type different....so not possible.

###  Runtime Polymorphism : 
- Runtime polymorphism is also known as dynamic polymorphism. 
- Method overriding is an example of runtime polymorphism.
-  Method overriding means when the child class contains the method which is already present in the 
                                    parent class. Hence, the child class overrides the method of the parent class.In case of method overriding,
                                    parent and child classes both contain the same function with a different definition.
- The call to the function is determined at runtime is known as runtime polymorphism.

  - ```java
      class Teacher{
	                            String name;
	                            int age;
	                              void job(){
		                            System.out.println("Teacher teaches.");
	                              }
                                }
                                class History extends Teacher{
	                            void job() {
		                           System.out.println("Teaches history");
	                              }
                                }
                                class Math extends Teacher{
	                              void job() {
		                              System.out.println("Teaches math");
	                              }
                                }
                               public class Runtime {
	                             static void intro(Teacher teacher) {
		                          teacher.job();
		                        }
                               public static void main(String args[]) {
	                           Teacher t1 = new Teacher();
	                           Teacher t2 = new History();
	                           Teacher t3 = new Math();
	                           Runtime.intro(t1);
	                           Runtime.intro(t2);
	                           Runtime.intro(t3)
                               }
                            }
  ```                              
# Abstraction :
- Abstraction is hiding the unnecessary details & showing only the essential parts/functionalities to the user.

- Advantage of abstraction is that it makes our system easy and less complex to use.

    - e.g you know that when you press start button in car, it will start engine. A driver need to know only this information, he did not
    need to know how internall fuel is converting into enery and engine is runing

    ### Data binding :
    -  Data binding is a process of binding the application UI and business logic.
     Any change made in the business logic will reflect directly to the application UI. 

-  Abstraction is achieved in 2 ways :
 - 1. Abstract class
   2. Interfaces (Pure Abstraction)

## Abstract Classes and Methods:
- The abstract keyword is used for classes and methods:
- `Abstract class`: is a restricted class that cannot be used to create objects (to access it, it must be inherited from another class).
- `Abstract method`: can only be used in an abstract class, and it does not have a body. The body is provided by the derived class (inherited from).
- An abstract class can have both abstract and regular methods.
- ```java
  abstract class Animal 
  {
     public abstract void animalSound();
     public void sleep() 
    {
    Console.WriteLine("Zzz");
    }
  }
  ```
- ```java
  // Abstract class
   abstract class Animal
      {
      // Abstract method (does not have a body)
    public abstract void animalSound();
      // Regular method
         public void sleep()
    {
    Console.WriteLine("Zzz");
    // Derived class (inherit from Animal)
    class Pig : Animal
   {
      public override void animalSound()
      {
       // The body of animalSound() is provided here
       Console.WriteLine("The pig says: wee wee");
      }
   }

   class Program
   {
      static void Main(string[] args)
  {
    Pig myPig = new Pig(); // Create a Pig object
    myPig.animalSound();  // Call the abstract method
    myPig.sleep();  // Call the regular method
  }
   }
   }
   }  

  ```

### Why And When To Use Abstract Classes and Methods?
- To achieve security - hide certain details and only show the important details of an object.
- Note: Abstraction can also be achieved with Interfaces,// Derived class (inherit from Animal).

## Interfaces:
- An interface is a completely `"abstract class"`, which can only contain abstract methods and properties (with empty bodies).
- By default, members of an interface are abstract and public.
-  Interfaces can contain properties and methods, but not fields.
- To access the interface methods, the interface must be `"implemented" `(kinda like inherited) by another class. To implement an interface, use the `:` symbol (just like with inheritance). The body of the interface method is provided by the "implement" class. Note that you do not have to use the override keyword when implementing an interface.

- ```java
  // Interface
   interface IAnimal 
   {
      void animalSound(); // interface method (does not have a body)
   }

  // Pig "implements" the IAnimal interface
  class Pig : IAnimal 
  {
    public void animalSound() 
    {
    // The body of animalSound() is provided here
    Console.WriteLine("The pig says: wee wee");
    }
  }

  class Program 
  {
     static void Main(string[] args) 
     {
      Pig myPig = new Pig();  // Create a Pig object
      myPig.animalSound();
     }
  }
  ```


## . What is difference between interfaces and abstract classes.
1. A java class can implements multiple interface but can only extends a single abstract class. Thus interfaces can be used in multiple inheritance.
    
2. Each member of interface must be public, while in abstract classes, these can be public or private or package private or even protected.
    
3. interface can not have constructors while abstract class can have any number of constructors.

4. interface can not have instance variables while abstract class can contain multiple instance variables.

5. Apart from these, major difference is purpose of both, abstract classes are base classes which define common methods, variables so that multiple child class can reuse. Interface on other hand are used as a contract, which declared a set of method and ensures that a class which implement this interface have these functalities.


## Static Class:
- In C#, a static class is a class that cannot be instantiated and can only contain static members, making it sealed and unable to be inherited from. 
- Cannot be instantiated
- Sealed by default
- Contains only static members
- No instance constructors
- Used for utility or helper functions
- ```java
  public static class MathHelper
  {
    public static double Square(double value)
    {
        return value * value;
    }

    public static double Cube(double value)
    {
        return value * value * value;
    }
  }

  // Usage:
  double result = MathHelper.Square(5); // Access static methods directly through the class name
  ```

- 


