# Interview Questions

## 1. How is C# different from C?
- You would always know C being the procedural language while C# is a more object-oriented language. The biggest difference is that C# supports automatic garbage collection by Common Language Runtime (CLR) while C does not. C# primarily needs a .NET framework to execute while C is a platform-agnostic language. 

## 2. Does C# support multiple inheritance?
- C# doesn’t support multiple inheritances. Instead, you can use interfaces to inherit the properties using the class name in the signature.

## 3. Tell us the difference between static, public, and void.
- Public declared variables are accessible from anywhere in the application. Static declared variables are accessible globally without the need to create an instance of the class. However, they are not, by default, globally accessible. It depends on the type of access modified. Void is a type modifier used to specify the return type of a method. 

## 4. What is the difference between an Array and ArrayList in C#?
- An array is a collection of similar variables clubbed together under one common name. While ArrayList is a collection of objects that can be indexed individually. With ArrayList you can access a number of features like dynamic memory allocation, adding, searching, and sorting items in the ArrayList. 

- When declaring an array the size of the items is fixed therefore, the memory allocation is fixed. But with ArrayList, it can be increased or decreased dynamically.
- Array belongs to system.array namespace while ArrayList belongs to the system.collection namespace.
- All items in an array are of the same datatype while all the items in an ArrayList can be of the same or different data types.
- While arrays cannot accept null, ArrayList can accept null values.

## 5. What are the primary reasons for using C# language?
- Part of the .NET framework
- Easy to learn
- Object-oriented language
- Automated garbage collection
- Builds better and more efficient programs
- Component-oriented 

## 6. What are Generics in C#?
- Generics are used to make reusable code classes. This is done to reduce code redundancy and promote better performance and type safety. `OR`
In C# collections, defining any kind of object is termed okay which compromises C#’s basic rule of type-safety. Therefore, generics were included to type-safe the code by allowing re-use of the data processing algorithms. Generics in C# mean not linked to any specific data type. Generics reduce the load of using boxing, unboxing, and typecasting objects. Generics are always defined inside angular brackets <>. To create a generic class, this syntax is used:
```java
 GenericList<float> list1 = new GenericList<float>();
 GenericList<Features> list2 = new GenericList<Features>();
 GenericList<Struct> list3 = new GenericList<Struct>();
```

## 7. What are extension methods in C#?
- Extension methods help to add new methods to the existing ones. The methods that are added are static. At times, when you want to add methods to an existing class but don’t perceive the right to modify that class or don’t hold the rights, you can create a new static class containing the new methods. Once the extended methods are declared, bind this class with the existing one and see the methods will be added to the existing one.

## 8. What are the differences between ref and out keywords?
- C# ref keywords pass arguments by reference and not value. To use the ‘ref’ keyword, you need to explicitly mention ‘ref’. 
- C# out keywords pass arguments within methods and functions. 
‘out’ keyword is used to pass arguments in a method as a reference to return multiple values. Although it is the same as the ref keyword, the ref keyword needs to be initialised before it is passed. Here, The out and ref keywords are useful when we want to return a value in the same variables that are passed as an argument. 

## 9. What are the types of classes in C#?
- `Static class`: Static class can be created using the ‘static’ keyword. It contains static data members, static constructors, and static methods. However, you cannot create objects in it. 
- `Partial class`: Partial class can divide the functionality of one class into multiple ones. The keyword ‘partial’ is used to create it. 
- `Abstract class`: This class type is restricted and cannot be used to create objects. However, it can be accessed by inheriting it from another class. 
- `Sealed class`: Sealed class can be instantiated but not inherited by any class. The keyword ‘sealed’ is used to restrict inheritance.

## 10. Define Jagged Arrays.
- A jagged array is an array that has arrays as its elements. These elements can be of different sizes and dimensions. A jagged array is also called an array of arrays. 

## 11. What is the difference between an abstract class and an interface?
- `Abstract class`: 
1. Abstract class has both abstract and non-abstract methods. 
2. Does not support multiple inheritances.
3.  The abstract keyword is used. Can help provide the implementation of interface. 
4. This can have static, non-static, final, and non-final variables.
- `Interface class`: 
1. Interface class can only have abstract methods.
2. Supports multiple inheritances
3. The interface keyword is used
4. Cannot provide the implementation of abstract class
5. This can only have static and final variables.

## 12. Define managed and unmanaged code.
- `Managed code` is developed using the Common Language Runtime (CLR) of the NET framework. It can be directly executed in C#.
Benefits: Provides various services like a garbage collector, exception handling, etc. 
- `Unmanaged code` is an unsafe code that doesn't run on CLR. It works outside of the NET framework.

## 13. What is garbage collection in C#?
- Garbage collection is the process of freeing up memory that is captured by unwanted objects. When you create a class object, automatically some memory space is allocated to the object in the heap memory. Now, after you perform all the actions on the object, the memory space occupied by the object becomes waste. It is necessary to free up memory. Garbage collection happens in three cases:
- If the occupied memory by the objects exceeds the pre-set threshold value.
- If the garbage collection method is called.
- If your system has low physical memory.

## 14. Define serialization.
- Serialization is the process of converting an object into a stream of bytes to transport it through a network. 

## 15. What are the steps involved in C# code compilation?
- There are four steps of C# code compilation.
- Compiling the source code into a managed module.
- The created managed module is combined into assembly code. 
- Loading the CLR
- Execution of assembly using CLR 

## 16.  What are the features of C#?
- Safely typed and managed
- General purpose nature
- Cross-platform friendly 
- Object-oriented
- Structured language
- Helps in implementing Destructors and Constructors
- Platform independent in case of compilation 

## 17. What is the difference between read-only and constants?
- A const keyword declares a constant field in the program. Once a variable is declared const, it is not possible to change its value later. On the other hand, a read-only keyword is used after a value is assigned at run time. 

## 18. What is the difference between dispose() and finalize() methods in C#?
- The user explicitly uses the dispose() method to free unmanaged resources. On the other hand, the finalize() method is implicitly used by the garbage collector to free unmanaged resources. These resources can include database connections.

## 19. What is a delegate in C#?
- Delegate represents references to methods with a specific parameter list and return type. It is similar to the function pointer in C++.

## 20. What is an object pool in .NET?
- An object pool is a container with objects ready to be used. It also helps track which objects are being used presently and how many are present. 

## 21. What are the differences between method overriding and method overloading?
- `Method overriding`:
1. This implements runtime polymorphism.
2. Determined at the runtime based on the object type
3. The effect is shown at runtime in case of an error.
4. It has the same name and the same signature.
5. Occurs within the class
6. Dynamic binding is used.
- `Method overloading`:
1. This implements compile-time polymorphism.
2. Determined at compile time
3. The error can be seen at compile time.
4. It has the same name but a different signature. 
5. Occurs in two classes with inheritance relationship
6. Static binding is used.

## 22. What is a multicast delegate?
- Multicast delegate refers to a single delegate with multiple handlers. 

## 23. What is thread pooling in C#?
- Thread pooling refers to a collection of threads. These threads are created during the multi-threaded application initialization. It helps in performing tasks in the background. Once a thread completes its task, it stands in a queue waiting to be reused. 

## 24. What is LINQ in C#?
- Language Integrated Query (LINQ) gives C# the ability to create queries that help retrieve data from the data source. 

## 25. Differentiate between finalize blocks and finalize.
- Once the try and catch blocks have been completed, the finalize block is called since it is used for exception handling. No matter if the exception has been captured, this block of code is run. In general, the code in this block is cleaner.
- Just before garbage collection, the finalize method is called. The main priorities of the finalize method are to clean up unmanaged code, which is automatically triggered whenever an instance is not re-called.

## 26. What is meant by a Partial Class?
- A partial class effectively breaks a class's definition into various classes in the same or other source code files. A class definition can be written in numerous files, but it is compiled as a single class at runtime, and when a class is formed, all methods from all source files can be accessed using the same object. The keyword 'partial' denotes this.

## 27. What is the difference between read-only and constants?
- During the time of compilation, constant variables are declared as well as initialized. It’s not possible to change this particular value later. On the other hand, read-only is used after a value is assigned at run time.

## 28.  What are indexers in C# .NET?
- In C#, indexers are called smart arrays. Indexers allow class instances to be indexed in the same way as arrays do.

## 29. What are namespaces in C#?
- Namespaces allow you to keep one set of names that is different from others. A great advantage of namespace is that class names declared in one namespace don’t clash with those declared in another namespace. 

