# Indexer
- An indexer is a special type of property that allows a class or a structure to be accessed like an array for its internal collection.
- When you define an indexer for a class, this class behaves similar to a virtual array or a collection type. 
- You can then access the instance of this class using the array axis operator that is a square bracket {[]}.
- ```java
     element type this [int index]{
        get{}
        set{}
     }
  ```

# Indexer vs. Properties
- ss taken

# Enum
-  an enum is a user-defined datatype that has a fixed set of related values.
- We create a enum keyword to create a enum.
- ```java
   enum Properties{
    May,
    June, 
    July
   }
  ```

# Delegates 
- a delegate is nothing but a pointer to a method.
- delegate is a reference to the method.
- it is object-oriented, secured, and type-safe rather than only function pointer.
- A delegate holds the address of a method which can be called using the delegate reference variable.
-  For static method, delegate encapsulates method only but for instance method, it encapsulates method instance both.
- There are three steps involved while working with delegate, declaring a delegate, set a target method or a method to which we need to refer, and third is to invoke the delegate.

# HTTP:
- HTTP, or Hypertext Transfer Protocol, is the foundation of the World Wide Web, defining the rules for how information is transferred between web browsers and servers, enabling the exchange of web pages and other data. 

# HTTPS:
- HTTPS, which stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure, is the secure version of HTTP, the protocol used to transfer data across the internet, ensuring encrypted communication between a web browser and a website.

# RESTFUL API:
- A RESTful API (or REST API) is an application programming interface (API) that follows the principles of Representational State Transfer (REST), a software architectural style, to enable communication between client and server applications over the internet, often using HTTP requests.