# MVC Aplication structure
- 1. App_Data: All data which is used to read and write in the application.
- 2. App_Start: Here you all put the configuration file.
- 3. Content: It stores images, css etc.
- 4. Controllers: Here you put all the controllers.
- 5. Fonts: Custom fonts used by bootstrap.
- 6. Models: This folder contains models.
- 7. Scripts: Here we keep scripts means js file.
- 8. Views: Here we keep all views means html code.


# Controller:
- Controller are .cs file which reside in controller folder. Controller are used to handle browser incoming http request
get data from models (if required), provide data to corresponding view or request (directly) and generate response.
- one of the main pillar of MVC(C - Controller)

## Role of Controller:
- work with user input(or browser request)
- Play an important role in  the flow of the application by handling incoming request and provide data 
in corresponding view or to the browser request.

## Add a new controller?
- Open view then solution explorer then right click on controller folder.
- Choose Add -> Controller
- Choose MVC 5 Controller - Empty or other templates as per requirements.
- click on Add
- On new window enter controller name (dont remove controller postfix)
- Click on Add
- This will add a blank controller in our project.

## What are action methods?
- A method inside a controller is called as action methods.
- Default return type of Action method is called Action result.
- Only a public method can be accessed from http request.
- By default all action methods are GET.
- An action method can return view, partial view, File, JSON, string etc.

## Make call from browser
- YourDomain/ControllerName/ActionMethodName

## Parameters in Action Method
- It is used to get Data which is sent to the URL.
- Nullable parameter - (int? code = null)

# View
- One of the main pillar f MVC(v-view)
- .cshtml file (c sharp + html)
- UI of application
- Everything which is visible to the user on the browse is view.

## Why view is required?
- To make your application interactive.
- To use html and other client side framework.
- View are added for each action method.
- ActionMethod return type should be ActionResult or ViewResult.

## Call view from browser
- In MVC browser cannot directly call view.
- Every call must go through controller.
- Browser even dont even know that it is calling the view or something else. Because its a job of action method.
If action method is returning  a view then browser will display the content.

## How Controller find a view?
- First it search the corresponding view folder(same name as controller name)
- Then it goes to shared folder

# Model:
- one of the main pillar of MVC( M - Model)
- .cs file
- Model responsible for data
- In dynamic website data comes from databse by models.
Once data comes from database then controller ActionMethod returns models to view.

# View Engine:
- View engine is basically used to convert all the programming language and HTML code to pure HTML.

# Razor:
- Razor is a markup syntax for embedding server side code into web pages.
- It is a view engine.
- It is not a programming language.
- View file extension for razor is .cshtml or .vbhtml
- Available in System.Web.Razor   namespace

## Razor syntax:
- It all begins with @
   - single line syntax
   - multi line syntax

### Single Line Syntax:
- Also known as singleline or inline expressions
   - @Expression  
       - ex- `@DateTime.Now`
   - @(Expression)
       - ex- `@(5-3)`

### MultiLine Syntax:
- ```java
   @{
    // your code write here
   }
  ```

## If statement in razor:
- ```java
  @if(condition){
    // code here
  }
  ```

## Ternary operator:
- `@(condition ? statement1 : statement 2)`

# HTML Helpers:
- HTML helpers are methods, used to return strings, used on view.
- In simple term, these are C# methods which are used to return HTML.
- using a html helper, you can render a text-box, an area, an image tag etc.
- MVC has built in HTML  helpers.
- We can create custom helpers also.
- Using html helpers a view can show model properties and can generate html as per the types of properties.

## Types:
- 1. Inline Html helpers
- 2. Built-in Html helpers
       - standard html helpers
       - strongly html helpers
       - Templated html helpers
- 3. Custom html helpers

## Inline HTML helpers:
- These are created in single view and used in same page.
- can be created using @helper tag.
- ```java
  @helper HelperName(parameters){
    //Code
  }
  ```
  ### Use Case:
  - When you have a something common for a single view
  - Best way to avoid code duplicacy for the single view.
  - Dont use for common part for different view.

## BuiltIn HTML Helpers:
- These are already created by ASP.Net MVC.
- These methods have multiple overrides so that we can use as per our requirement.

### Standard HTML Helpers:
- @Html.ActionLink() : Used to create link in html page
- @Html.TextBox() : used to create text box
- @Html.CheckBox() : used to create check box
- @Html.RadioButton() : used to create radio button
- @Html.BeginForm() : used to start form
- @html.EndForm() : used to end form
- @Html.DropFownList() : used to create drop down list
- @Html.Hidden() : used to create hidden files.