
# View Bag and View Data:
- Both ViewBag and ViewData are used to passed data from controller to view.
- This is the easiest way to pass data from controller to view (not view to controller).

# View Bag:
- View Bag is a dynamic property.
- This is used to send data from controller to view
- We can assign any name to property. `ViewBag.MyProperty = Value;`

# View Data:
- It works as a dictionary.
- This is also used to send data from controller to view
- We can assign any name to key. `ViewData["myKey"] = Value;`

# Advantages:
- Easy to use
- Less code
- Do not depend on other classes
- Works very well while passing datafrom controller to view etc.

# Disadvantages:
- No compile time checking
- key or property name can be mispelled.
- Need to cast while using on view.
- Cant send data from view to controller

# TempData:
- TempData is used to pass store data for one subsequent request.
- TempData works as a dictionary
- We can assign any name to key
- TeamData internally uses session to store data `TempData["myKey"] = Value;`

# Keek()
- To save data for next HTTP call we use `Keek()` method.
- To save data of all TempData we use `Keek()`.
- To save data for a particular key we use `Keep("key")`.
- `TempData.Keep()` 
- `TempData.Keep("key")`

# Peek()
- `Peek()` is used to get data and save for next call.
- `Peek() = Get data from TempData() + Keep()`

# Note:
- TempData - Internally it uses `Session`.
- If session is disabled in application then TempData will not work.

# Http verbs:
- HTTP is HyperText Transfer Protocol
- This protocol works while working with client server application.
- This protocol provide communication between client and server.
- The Client sends request to the server by following the HTTP rules.

- HTTP provides methods(Verbs) for the action performed on a rescue.
- HTTP provides following main verbs
      - Get
      - Post
      - Put
      - Delete
- HTTP verbs are used on a action method

## HTTP Get
- This verb is used to GET existing data from database
- In HttpGet data travels in URL only
- Example 
     - domain.com/student/profile/1
     - domain.com/student/profile?studentId=1
- To use Http get method we use `HttpGet` attribute on Action method

## HTTP Post
- This verb is used while we have to create new resource in database.
- In HttpGet data travels in URL and body
- Example
      - domain.com/student/profile
      - Body - Json body
- To use http get method we use `HttpPost` attribute on Action method.

## HTTP Put
- This verb is used while we have to update exiting resource in database.
- In Http data travels in URL and body
- Example
    - domain.com/student/profile/1
    - Body- Json body
- To use Http get method we use `HTtpPut` attribute on Action Method

## HTTP Delete
- This verb is used while we have to delete exiting resource in database.
- In Http data travels in URL and body
- Example - domain.com/student/profile/1
- To use http get method we use `HttpDelete` attribute on Action method.
