# API: Application Programming Interface
- responsible  for transmitting the data or rather it is a way of multiple applications to communicate with each other.
- client ----request---> server
- server ----response---> client

## example
- resturant table ----request/order---> chef -----waitor/server----response/cooked food--->back to table

## How http works?
- verb(action to take)
- headers(information)
- content(optional)
- ex: verb: POST,
content length: 9,
content: Magic API

- Response - {status code, headers, content} - {201, Text, Magic Api}

## stateless
- server is a stateless meaning that it will not remember things. because server gets multiple requests, once it serves the request/response then, it forgets about the request/response. Because memory consumption will haven, thus disk will be overloaded. 

# Request Object:

## Verb(HTTPS verbs or actions)
- GET: fetches/requests resource
- POST: creates/inserts resource
- PUT: update/modify resource
- PATCH: update/modify partial resource
- DELETE: deletes/ removes resource

## Headers(Request's metadata)
- Content Type: content's format
- Content Length: size of content
- Authorization: who is making request
- Accept: what are the accepted types

## Content(Request's content)optional
- HTML, CSS, XML, JSON
- Information for the request
- Blobs etc.

# Response Object:

## Status Code
- 100-199 : Informational
- 200-299 : Success
    - 200 : ok
    - 201 : created
    - 204 : no content
- 300-399 : Redirection
- 400-499 : Client erros
    - 400 : Bad requests
    - 404 : not found
    - 409 : conflict
- 500-599 : Server error
    - 500 : Internal server error

## Headers(Respose Metadata)
- Content Type: content format
- Content Length: size of the content
- Expires : when is this invalid

## Content 
- HTML, CSS, XML, JSON
- Blobs etc.

# Note 1:
- for routing , in controller file there will be done this:-
- [Route("api/controllername")]

# Note 2:
- The http method will be get/post/...that will be written in the endpoint of the action method.
- In CRUD operations - for deleting we have to delete something by their id.
- There is a function to get the immediate date and time - DateTime.Now




