# MVC Life Cycle
## Life Cycle:
- Life cycle is the set of certain stages which occur in certain time.
- Steps:
- 1. Application Start (Global.asax)
- 2. Routing
- 3. MVC Handler
    - a. IControllerFactory.CreateController
          - Create TempDataProvider
          - Controller.CreateActionInvoker
          - Authentication Filter --> if yes then follow below steps if no then direct Controller Dispose
          - Authorization Filter --> if yes then follow below steps if no then direct Controller Dispose
          - Model Binder
          - Action and Action Filter
          - Execute result and execute filter
    - b. Controller Dispose

## MVC
- MVC is a architechural pattern that divides an application into three main logical components - model, view, controller.
- MVC lifecycle has 2 cycles: application life cycle and request life cycle.

## Filters in MVC LIFE CYCLE:
- Filters are designed to inject logic in between MVC request life cycle events. Filters provide developers with powerful ways to inspect, analyze, capture and instrument several things going around within MVC application.
- Filter type ---> Implemented by
   - Authentiction Filters ---> IAuthenticationFilter
   - Authorization Filters ---> IAuthorizationFilter
   - Action Filter ---> IActionFilter
   - Result Filter ---> IResultFilter
   - Exception Filter ---> IExceptionFilter

## Authentication filters
- Authentication filters are new addition from MVC 5. These filters kick in first in the request life cycle and perform the authentication logic.
## Authorization filters
- Authorization filters are executed after the Authentication filters successfully executed and authorizes users roles to ensure current user has access to request resource.
## Action filters
- Action filters are executed next in the request life cycle and execute any custom logic you may want to perform before and after action execution.
## Result filters
- Result filters are executed before and after result execution.
## Exception filters
- Finally, the exception filters are executed when there is an exception during processing of request.


