# 1.  What is Operating System?
- An Operating System is a software that manages computer hardware, software resources and provides common services for computer program.
      It acts as intermediary between computer program and hardware on ehich these programs will run.
      ex: Winndows, Linux, Android, Mac

# 2. What are the Functionalities of OS?
- The functionalities are:
    - 1. `Security`-- The OS uses password protection to protect user data and similar other techniques.
    - 2. `Control over system performance`-- Monitors overall system health to help improve performance, records the response time between service requests
                                             and system response to having a complete view of the system health.
    - 3. `Job Accounting`-- OS keeps track of time and resources used by various tasks and users.
    - 4. `Error detecting aids`-- The OS constantly monitors the system to detect errors and avoid the malfunctioning of the computer system.
    -  5. `Memory Management`-- It keeps track of primary memory ie. which bytes of memory are used by which user program. It allocates the memory 
                               when the process has terminated or is performing an I/O operation.

# 3. What is Thread?
-  Thread is an execution unit that is part of a process. A process can have multiple threads, all executing at the same time. Threads of same process 
      share code, heap memory and data. Thus creating thread is more efficient than a program.

# 4. What is process?
-  A process is a execution of a program that allows you to perform the appropiate actions specified in a program.
      Multiple processes runs isolated to each other and do not share any information between them.

# 5. What is Deadlock?
-  Deadlock is a situation that occurs in Os when any process enters a waiting state because another waiting process is holding a demanding resorces.
       Deadlock is a common problem in multiprocessing where several processes share a specific type of mutually exclusive resource known as soft lock or software.

# 6. The four deadlock conditions are:
-  1. `Mutual Exclusion`-- Only one process can use a resource at any given time ie. resources are non shareable.
- 2. `Hold and Wait`-- A process holding at least one resource at a time and is waiting to acquire other resorces held by some other process.
- 3. `No preemption`-- The resorce can be released by a process voluntarily, ie. after execution of a process.
- 4. `Circular Wait`-- A set of processes are waiting each other in a circulr fashion. This creates a circular relation between all these processes 
                          and have to wait forever to be executed.

# 7. The Deadlock Prevention are:
   - 1. `Deadlock Preventation`-- This is done by restraining the ways a request can be made. Since deadlock occurs when all the four conditions,  any of them we try to prevent, thus preventing a deadlock.
                                 
   - 2. `Deadlock Avoidance`-- When a process requests a resource, the deadlock avoidance algorithm examines the 
    resorce-allocation state.  If allocating that resource sends the system into an unsafe state, the request is not granted.
     Therefore it requires additional information such as how many resources of each type is required by a process. If the system enters
      into an unsafe state it has to take steps back to avoid deadlock.
   -  3. `Deadlock detection and recovery`-- We let the system fall into a deadlock and if it happens, we detect it using a detection algorithm and try to recover.
                                             
   -  4. `Deadlock Ignorance`- In this method, the system assumes that deadlock never occurs. Since the problem of deadlock 
    situation is not frequent, some systems simply ignore it.
                                

# 8. Some types of OS:
-  Distributed Systems-- Distributed system is a collection of autonomous computer systems that are physically separated but are connected by a centralised    computer network that is equipped with distributed system software.

                         
# 9. A program is divided into 4 segment. Code, Data, Stack, Heap.                                                       
            