# Contents 
1. Definition of dbms and it's types 
2. Advantage / Disadvantage over file system 
3. Schema Vs Instance 
4. 3 Level of Abstraction 
5. Steps to Design Database 

## 1 Definition of dbms and it's types
1. Database is a collection of inter-related data in a structured way. 
2. Depending on how we can organise data in database, there are 2 types: 
    1. relational database
    2. non-relational database.
3. DBMS is a software which is used to create, manage, delete database. Many vendors provide dbms.
4. Relation databases(MySql, Oracle) stores data in form of tables and columnns. Advantages are easier to maintain, provides security ,query language and transaction Management.
5. Non-relation database(Mongodb, radis, graphql) stores data in key-pair forms or graph databases. Suitable for large data stores.

## 2. Advantages / Disadvantage  of dbms over file system

### 2.1 Advantages over file system 
1. control data redundancy
2. Easier to mange, provides ui
3. provides security and backup
4. provides query language
	
### 2.2 Disadvantages over file system
1. cost of hardware and software
2. difficult to manage for small project

## 3. schema vs instance 
1. schema means design of database. It represents how to store database.
2. instance means content of database at a particular instant of time.
	
## 4. 3-Level Of Abstraction
- DBMS 3 tier architechture divides whole system into 3 different layer which are independent to each other.
- 3 schema architechture is used to achieve data independence.
- data independence means change at one level does not affect the another level.

### 4.1 View-Level
- Different users of database see different view of data based on their permissions

### 4.2 Conceptual or Design-Level
- In this level, we design the database that how data will be organised in databases and tables, and what are relations b/w tables.
- Database developers works here.

### 4.3 Physical-Level
- It describes how data is actually stored in physical disks. what are indexing used etc. Database administrator works here.
	
## 5. Steps to design a database ####
1. Requirements gathering of entity which we need to store.
2. conceptual design using E-R model
3. Logical desisgn (Relational Model)
4. Physical level design ( deciding keys, database vendors, indexing)