# Keys in database 
 ## Candidate Key:
- set of attributes uniquely identifies two records in a table, it will be unique
		can contain null values
## Primary Key:
- ={unique + not null}
	- Out of all Candidate key, one can be primary key to identify each record uniquely
		can'nt contain null values
        we give the value of primary keys to users dont take it from them. like reg. no, roll no.
## Alternate key:
- All Candidate keys except primary key are alternate keys.
## Super Key:
- superset of candidate key
## Composite key:
- contains more than one key
## Foreign Key:
- It is an attribute which only takes the value of key of other tables.
- The relation which is being referenced is called referenced relation and the corresponding attribute is called referenced 
		attribute and the relation which refers to the referenced relation is called referencing relation and the corresponding 
		attribute is called referencing attribute.
- It is used to establish relationship among two tables.
    - foreign key should always reference to primary for unique key of referenced table.
    - base table or referenced table...another one is referencing table
	- Multiple records of referencing table can have same foreign key to referenced table i.e many:1 relationship
	- primary key can also act as a foreign key.
	-  Maintains Referntial integrity: are set of rules that maintain the data consitency and integrity between related tables:
 - 1. RESTRICT: 
	    - prevents the deletion or update of a row in the referenced table if there are corresponding rows in the 
    			referencing table.
- 2. CASCADE: 
        - when a row in the referenced table is deleted or updated, the corresponding rows in the referencing table are 
				also deleted or updated automatically.
- 3. SET NULL: 
        - when a row in the referenced table is deleted or updated, the corresponding foreign key values in the 
    			referencing table are set to NULL.
- 4. SET DEFAULT: 
        - when a row in the referenced table is deleted or updated, the corresponding foreign key values in the 	
    			referencing table are set to a default value.
    		
- 5.  Non-key:
        - attributes which are not part of candidate key. 
		
	
# Data Model 
- Defines the design how data is organised in database.
- types:
    - a. E-R model
	- b. Relational Data Model
	- c. Object Based data Model
	- d. Semi structured data Model
		

# E-R data Model 
- stands for Entity relationship model
- it is used for conceptual design of database.
- objects are reprsented as entity and relationship among objects are portyaed using diagrams.
- components:
	- Entity: represents an object using rectancle figure
	- attribute: represents property of object using eclipse figure
	- relationship: diamond shape is used to represent relationship among 2 entities:
		- it can be 1:1, 1:many, many:1, many:many
	- Primary attribute: uniquely identifies 2 records, attribute is underlined.
			
			
# Relational Data Model 
- It stores data in form of tables, each table consists of columns and rows. columns represents attributes while rows represents
	records. 
- Called relational because table can relate to each other using concept of foreign key.
	
