# Content 
1. About Transaction.
2. ACID Properties 
3. Commands 

## 1. About Transaction
- Transaction in a database is a sequence of operations that are executed as a single logical unit of work.
- So Basically a transaction consists multiple sql read/write queries.
- e.g When we send or receive money to our freinds, it involves multiple steps like,
    1. Read sender accout and verify that sender has enough money. (a read operation)
    2. Deduct amount from sender account. (a write operation)
    3. Add that amount in receiver account. (a write operation)

- Advantages of Transactions are that:
    1. It provides data consistency.
    2. Provide roll back options if any failure occurs during transactions.
    3. concurrent executions for improved performance.

- Disadvantages are:
    1. Degrade in performance as it requires locking mechanism to maintain isolation
    2. extra space needed to maintain durability.

## 2. ACID properties
- ACID properties are a set of four essential characteristics that every transactions must follow.
- These properties are crucial for maintaining data integrity, consistency, even in the presence of system failures or errors.

1. `Atomicity (A):`
    - Atomicity ensures that a transaction is treated as a single, indivisible unit of work. It means that either all the operations within a transaction are successfully completed, or none of them are. There is no in-between state.
    - If any part of a transaction fails (e.g., due to an error or system crash), the entire transaction is rolled back to its original state, ensuring that the database remains consistent.

2. `Consistency (C):`
    - Consistency ensures that a transaction brings the database from one consistent state to another. 
    - Due to this, If a transaction violates any integrity constraints (e.g., foreign key relationships or unique constraints), it is not allowed and thus database remains unchanged and consistent.

3. `Isolation (I):`
    - Isolation guarantees that concurrent transactions do not interfere with each other. Each transaction appears to be executed in isolation from others, even though they may be executing simultaneously.
    - These is acheived using locking mechanisms, where any data read or written into by a transaction is locked until the transaction is complete, preventing other transactions from reading or writing into the same data. 
    - Other methods include timestamp-based concurrency control and optimistic concurrency control.

4. `Durability (D):`
    - Durability ensures that once a transaction is successfully completed (committed), its effects on the database persist, even in the event of a system crash or power failure. The changes made by the transaction are permanent.
    - Once a transaction is committed, it is stored in non-volatile memory (like a hard disk), ensuring that the results of the transaction survive subsequent failures. The DBMS maintains a log of all transactions, and if a system failure occurs, the DBMS uses the log to restore the database to its state right before the failure.


## 3. Commands
```sql
/*COMMIT current transaction*/
COMMIT;

/*ROLLBACK current transaction changes*/
ROLLBACK;

/* Create a save point in current transaction*/
SAVEPOINT save_point_name;

/* ROLLBACK to a save point */
ROLLBACK TO save_point_name;
```