# Contents 
1. What we can do with DDL 
2. Data types in SQL 
3. Keys in SQL 
4. Constrains in SQL 
5. CREATE Command 
6. DROP Command 
7. ALTER Command
8. TRUNCATE Command

## 1. What we can do with DDL
- Stands for data definition Language.
- Using DDL Commands, we can create/update/delete database objects.
- Database objects are database, table, indexes, constraints, stored procedures.
- DDL Commands are auto-commited, means once we run DDL query successfully, Changes are reflected immediately to the database and thus can not be rolled back.
- commands are:
    1. `CREATE:` used to create database objects.
    2. `DROP:` Used to delete the database objects.
    3. `ALTER:` Used to update database objects.
    4. `TRUNCATE:` Used to empty the content of database.

## 2. Data types in SQL 
### 2.1 Need?
- Similary like a programming language where we declare the type of each variable which indicates that what kind of information this variable will store, in database, for each column we must need to specify what kind of data it will store. This will maintain consitency as each column will always store only one kind of value.

### 2.2 Different Types 
1. Numeric type used for integers: `INT, BIGINT, SMALLINT, BIT, NUMERIC, MONEY, SMALLMONEY` 
2. To store for decimals: `FLOAT, REAL, DECIMAL`
3. To store characters and strings (unicode which is standard): `CHAR, VARCHAR(max_char_length), TEXT`
4. To store characters and strings (non-unicode , rarely used): `NCHAR, NVARCHAR(max_char_length)`
5. To store dataes and times: `DATETIME, SMALLDATETIME, DATE, TIME`
6. To store binary data (images, videos): `BINARY, VARBINARY, BLOB`

## 3. Keys in SQL 
- Keys in sql are set of columns (can also be 1 column).
- When we declare a key on a set of columns, we are enforcing some constraints on those set of columns.

### 3.1 Primary Key
1. Primary Key are set of columns which identify each record uniquely.
2. For each record, they are different and this is the constraint which we are putting when are marking a column as primary key.
3. It Can not be null.
4. It creates a clustered index (data is sorted in memory based on primary key).

### 3.2 Foreign Key
1. It is used to establish relationship among two tables.
2. Foreign Key of table can only takes the value of primary key or UNIQUE Keys of other tables.

### 3.3 UNIQUE Key 
1. It marks a set of columns unique in a table means no 2 record can have same value for these fields. 
2. e.g generally we mark email as unique key in USER TABLE becuase no 2 user should have same email.
3. It creates a non-clustered Index.

## 4. Constraints
- Constraints in database are conditions which every record must follows. 
- This ensures data consistentcy in database.

### 4.1 PRIMARY KEY 
- Enforce that a column should be unique and not null for each record in table.

### 4.2 FOREIGN KEY 
- Enforce Constraint that column should contain values of primary key or Unique key of referenced table.

### 4.3 NOT NULL 
- Enforce that this column can not contain null values.

### 4.4 UNIQUE 
- For each record in table, this column must contain unique value.

### 4.5 CHECK(predicate)
- ensures that every record follow the predicate written with check

### 4.6 DEFAULT value;
- Specifies that a column should get this value if no value is specified present.

### 4.7 Referential Constraints 
- referntial constraints are added on referenced table's columns when they are used in to establish relationship with other table using foreign keys.
- They are must to data integrity. suppose table user (id, email,product_id) and table product (id, name, price) is connected using foreign key product_id of table user which referes to id of table product. Now suppose if there is a record in table user with product_id 1 and in product table someone delete the record where id of product is 1. This will create data integrity issue as we know that one use has bought a product with id=1 but we are not able to know that information of product.
- It add Constraints based on policy.
- Policies are:
    1. `RESTRICT (by default applied):` can not delete the record in referenced table if it is referenced using foreign key.
    2. `CASCADE:` If you update the field of referenced table, that update will be propgated to referencing table.
    3. `SET NULL` if you delete the record of referenced table, null will be set in referencing table.
    4. `SET DEFAULT value`if you delete the record of referenced table, a defaul value given here will be set in referencing table.

## 5. CREATE Command
- Used to create database, table, indexes, procedures, triggers etc.
```sql
/* Create a database */
CREATE DATABASE db_name;

/* Connect the database*/
use db_name;

/* Create a table */
CREATE TABLE table_name (
    column1 datatype (constrains),
    column2 datatype (constraints),
    column3 datatype (constraints),
   ....,
   PRIMARY KEY (column1, column2,..),
   FOREIGN KEY columnx REFERENCES another_table(columny)
);

/* Create table from another table */
CREATE TABLE new_table_name AS
[SELECT FROM WHERE query];
```
## 6. DROP Command
- Used to delete entirely (record + schemal) database, table, triggers, views, procedures, indexes.
```sql
/* Drop database */
DROP DATABASE databasename;

/* DROP Table */
DROP TABLE Shippers;
```
## 7. ALTER Command
- Used to modify the schema of an already created table.
- e.g to add new columns, remove some existings columns, add new constraints, remove some constraints, change data type of columns.
```sql
/* Add a column */
ALTER TABLE table_name
ADD column_name datatype;

/* Change the data type of an existing column */
ALTER TABLE table_name
MODIFY COLUMN column_name new_datatype;

/* Add a Foreign Key constraint on an exisiting table */
ALTER TABLE Orders
ADD FOREIGN KEY (PersonID) REFERENCES Persons(PersonID);

/* Add a primary key */
ALTER TABLE table_name
ADD PRIMARY KEY (columnx);
```
## 8. TRUNCATE Command
- This command delete each record from the table but maintain the schema of table.
```sql
TRUNCATE TABLE table_name;
```