# Content 
1. About Transaction.
2. ACID Properties 
3. Commands 

## 1. About Transaction
- Transaction in a database is a sequence of operations that are executed as a single logical unit of work.
- So Basically a transaction consists multiple sql read/write queries.
- e.g When we send or receive money to our freinds, it involves multiple steps like,
    1. Read sender accout and verify that sender has enough money. (a read operation)
    2. Deduct amount from sender account. (a write operation)
    3. Add that amount in receiver account. (a write operation)

- Advantages of Transactions are that:
    1. It provides data consistency.
    2. Provide roll back options if any failure occurs during transactions.
    3. concurrent executions for improved performance.

- Disadvantages are:
    1. Degrade in performance as it requires locking mechanism to maintain isolation
    2. extra space needed to maintain durability.

- TCL Stands for transaction control language
- Commands are COMMIT, ROLLBACK, SAVEPOINT


## 2. ACID Properties 
### A : Atomicity
- Every operation of transaction should be executed succesfully or none of operations should execute at all.
### C : Consistency
- A transaction must leave database in consistent state after it's execution meaning that database must maintain all data integrity rules and constraints.
### I : Isolation
-  Multiple transactions executing parallely are isolated from each other to avoid conflicts. It ensures that each transaction operates on a separate view of data.
### D: Durability
- Once a transaction has been committed, its changes must be durable and persistent, meaning that they are permanently stored in the database and cannot be lost.
		
## 3. COMMANDS 
- `COMMIT;` mark the changes made by a transaction to database permanently;
- `ROLLBACK; or ROLLBACK TO <save point name>;` roll back changes to last commited state or a save point;
- `SAVEPOINT save_point_name;` create a save point here.
		
# TRANSACTION STATES
## Active state:
- Transactions are executing it's Read and write operation in this state
## Partially Commited:
- All the read/write operation is complete but commit operation is remaining
## Commited:
- Transaction is commited and changes are made permanently to the database.
## Failed state:
- if during active state or partially commited state, any failure occurs and system unable to proceed further reached into this
		state.
## Aborted state:
- if transaction goes into failed state, roll back operation is executed and it moved to aborted state.
## Terminated state:
- from commited state or aborted state, it reached to terminated state means transaction ended.