# Contents 
1. Indexing 
2. Views 
3. Procedures 
4. Triggers

## 1. Indexing 
- A database index is a data structure that makes the searching of data record in tables faster.
- Index data structure consist of 2 parts:
    1. Key : which are index columns (which are column of table) 
    2. a pointer to actual record on disk.
- One or more columns of table can act as key in index.
- So, Advantages of indexing is that it enables fast searching and retrival of data on index columns. o(logn) rather than o(n).
- Disadvantage is it makes write operations(insert, update, delete) of records slow as these operations needs to be performed
in a way that indexed properties are maintained.
- There are 2 types of index:
    1. Clustered Index 
    2. Non Clustered Index 

## 1.1 Clustered Index:
1. A clustered index data structure pyhsicaly sort the data in table based on indexed columns.
2. There can be only one clustered index as physical disk data is directly referenced.
3. Primary key implicitly creates a clustered index.

## 1.2 Non-Clustered Index:
1. A non-clustered index is a data structure (basically a B+ tree) which stores the indexed columns along with pointer to clustered index record.
2. For every read request:
    1. first data is located in non-clustered index.
    2. from there we get a row in clustered index.
    3. from there we read the data. 
3. There can be many non-clustered index. 
4. Advantages are: 
    1. speed up searching, retrival or filtering data using conditions of indexed columns.
5. Disadvantages are: 
    1. Decrease performance on modifying data on indexed columns as indexed table and actual table both need to be modified.
    2. It requires extra storage, extra disks i/o operation to read/write, so not efficient.  
    
6.  How to create:
    1. `Unique key implicitly creates non clustered index.`
    2. `CREATE INDEX index_name ON table_name (column_name1, column_name2, ...);`

## 3. Views
1. A view is a virtual table whose contents are defined by a query. 
2. Like a table, a view consists of a set of named columns and rows of data. 
3. A view does not store the data pyhsically in memory like a table. The rows and columns of data come from tables referenced in the query defining the view and are produced dynamically when the view is referenced.
4. Once a view is created, you can query it in same way like a you do for a normal table.
5. You can insert the record in a view only if the query which is used to create view contains only one table.

### 3.1 Uses of views 
1. views can be used for security proposes where we can restrict a user to see only some subset of information based on his role. e.g we can create a view which does not include employee password and give this view permission to sales team. Since employee password is criticial information, we may decide to not expose to the sales team.

### 3.2 Working with views 
```sql
-- Creating a view 
CREATE VIEW <view_name>
AS 
<SELECT-FROM-WHERE query>

-- practical e.g where we will create a view to expose only email,salary,name fields for sales team 
CREATE VIEW employee_view 
AS 
SELECT first_name, last_name, email, salary 
FROM employee;

-- now sales team can query this view like we query a normal table, but will see only name,email,salary.
SELECT * 
FROM employee_view;

-- Modify a view 
ALTER VIEW <view_name>
AS
<NEW SELECT-FROM-WHERE query>

-- Drop a view 
DROP VIEW IF EXISTS <view_name>;
```


## 3. Procedures 
1. A stored procedure is a set of SQL statements that have a name and are stored in the database.
2. So, each time we call the procedure, all the sql statement it contains, are executed.
3. A procedure like a function in programming language can take input parameters and can return an output parameters, but these are optional.

### 3.1 Some use cases 
1. Write a procedure to get the data based on some advanced select queries which we don't write to again and again. 
- e.g to get list of all employee who are on leave today.

### 3.2 Advantages of Procedures
1. It makes us easy to execute a set of queries again and again. So, if we have a set of SQL queries that we write over and over again, we can save them as a stored procedure. Then, we can call the stored procedure in SQL with a simple command to execute those queries when needed.
2. It performs faster as once procedure is created, it is stored in database in memory.

### 3.3 Disadvantages of Procedures
1. Stored Procedures are specifics to database engines and thus migrating from on db engine to another will need us to write the whole procedure again.
2. Writing the business logic using procedures will make our application code complex to manage and change. 

### 3.4
```sql
-- Syntax to create a procedure
CREATE PROCEDURE <procedure_name>
BEGIN
    -- statement1

    -- statement2
END 

-- Executing a procedure 
EXEC <procedure_name>;

-- e.g to store a procedure which return top 5 employee based on salary
CREATE PROCEDURE getTop5Employee
BEGIN   
    SELECT first_name,last_name,email,salary 
    FROM employee
    ORDER BY salary DESC
    LIMIT 5;
END

EXEC getTop5Employee;

-- e.g a procedure which take a parameter, e.g in previous procedure modify to return n top employee.
CREATE PROCEDURE getEmployeeDetails 
@total INT  
BEGIN
    SELECT first_name,last_name,email,salary 
    FROM employee
    ORDER BY salary DESC
    LIMIT @total;
END 

EXEC getEmployeeDetails 5;

-- e.g procedure which takes an input and return an output
CREATE PROCEDURE GetCustomerCount
    @Count INT OUTPUT
AS
BEGIN
    SELECT @Count = COUNT(*) FROM Customers;
END;

-- executing the above procedure need special syntax, since it involves output that we need to catc.
DECLARE @CustomerCount INT;
EXEC GetCustomerCount @CustomerCount OUTPUT;
SELECT @CustomerCount AS 'Customer Count';

-- drop a procedure 
DROP PROCEDURE <procedure_name>;
```

## 4. Triggers 
1. An SQL trigger is a database object that automatically executes a set of SQL statements when a specific event occurs on that table. 
2. So triggers are special kind of stored procedures. Key difference is that we must manually invoke the stored procedure but triggers will be invoked automatically only.
3. Triggers are used to enforce business rules, maintain data integrity, and automate certain actions within a database. 
4. They can be triggered by various events, such as inserting, updating, or deleting data in a table, and they allow you to perform additional operations based on those events.
5. Triggers can run `before an event` or `after an event`

### 4.1 Uses case | Advantages of triggers 
1. `Auditing:` Triggers can be used to audit the activity on a sensitive table. e.g audit any activity made on payment table .
2. `Data Validation:` Triggers can be used to validate data before it got inserted 
3.  `Automatic computation:` Triggers can be used to do certain computation automatically when a new record is inserted. e.g on a student table (id, math, phsics, chemistry, total_marks) to automatically insert total_marks for each student when a new record is inserted.

### 4.2 Disadvantages of triggers 
1. `Performance:` Triggers can slow down the performance of the database, especially if the code inside the trigger is complex and the trigger fires very often.
2. `Debug and maintance:` If there are many triggers in the system, it will be harder to study the flow and so it will be challenge to debug any issues if occurs.

### 4.3 Type of triggers 
1. `DDL Triggers:` 
    - These triggers run before or after a DDL event happens.
    - DDL Events are create_table, alter_table, drop_table.

2. `DML Triggers:`
    - These trigger run before or after a DML event happens.
    - DML Events are insert, update, delete.

3. `LOGON Triggers:`
    - These trigger runs when user create a session to login. 
    - It run just after db server authenticate the user and going to login, but before logging in.
    - Event is LOGON.

### 4.5 code 
```sql
-- e.g of a ddl trigger 
CREATE TRIGGER sample_ddl_trigger
ON DATABASE
FOR create_table,alter_table,drop_table
AS
PRINT 'you can not create,drop and alter tab';

-- e.g of a dml trigger to insert total_marks when a new entry is made 
CREATE TRIGGER student_mark
BEFORE INSERT OR UPDATE ON student 
FOR EACH ROW 
    SET NEW.TOTAL = NEW.phsics + NEW.chemistry + NEW.Maths ;

-- e.g of a logon trigger 
CREATE TRIGGER Logon_Audit_Trigger
ON ALL SERVER WITH EXECUTE AS 'sa'
FOR LOGON
AS
BEGIN
    INSERT INTO LoginAudit 
    (
        LoginName,
        LoginTime,
        ClientIP
    )
    VALUES 
    (
        ORIGINAL_LOGIN(),
        GETDATE(),
        CONNECTIONPROPERTY('client_net_address')
    );
END;
```