# Java Fundamentals Section Interview Questions
1. Tell me about java memory management.
2. Why java code is portable.
3. What is garbage collection.
4. Why String is immutable(or a final class).
5. What is autoboxing and autounboxing.
6. What are 4 pillars of oops.
7. What is difference between interfaces and abstract classes.
8. What is difference between method overloading and method overriding.
9. What is default method in interface.
10. What is functional interface.
11. What is Exception.
12. What is checked exception vs unchecked exception.

## 1. Tell Me about java memory management
- Memory management is the process of allocating new objects and removing unused objects to make space for those new object allocations.
- When we create any object in java, object data is stored in heap memory. Address of the object data is stored in a reference variable which stored in stack memory.
- Now, when we don't need any object, java garbage collection automatically remove unused objects for us.


## 2. Why Java code is portable
- Java files are first converted into bytecode and then bytecode is run on jvm. Now jvm converts the bytecode into machine specific code which runs on host os. So, same bytecode can run on multiple machines by using the different jvm for different machines which convert the bytecode into machine specific code for that machine. So in summary we are using same bytecode but different jvm on different machine to achieve portablility.

## 3. Garbage Collection
- Garbage Collection is a processs which runs to free space in heap memory automatically.
- So, As a developer, we do not take care of removing memory for unused objects. For us jvm do that.

## 4. Why String is immutable
1. String is immutable to optimise memory usage in java. for e.g if there is 2 string variable say x and y. and x="Hello" and also y="Hello", in that case 2 new object of value will not be created in memory. Only one obect with value "Hello" will be created and both x and y will refer to same variable.

2. It is immutable to protect sensitive information like passwords.

## 5. What is autoboxing and autounboxing 
- Autoboxing is the process of converting java primitive types to it's wrapper classes automatically when needed.
- Autounboxing is the process of converting java wrapper classes to coresponding primitive value.

## 6. Tell me 4 pillars of OOPS.
- 4 Pillar of OOPS are:
    1. **Abstraction**
    2. **inheritance**
    3. **polymorphism**
    4. **Encapsulation**
1. **Abstraction:** 
    - Abstraction means to hide implementation details and only expose functalities. 
    - This is achieved using interfaces and abstract classes. 

2. **Inheritance:** 
    - It is mechanism in which child classes aquire the features of parent classes. 
    - It is used to avoid the code reption.

3. **Polymorphism:** 
    - It means having many forms.
    - It is of 2 types, method overloading and method overriding.

4. **Encapsulation:**
    - Encapsulation means to bind the data and method together inside one class, like capsule in real world.
    - It is achived using access specifier, by keeping data of class as private and getters and setters as public.

## 7. What is difference between interfaces and abstract classes.
1. A java class can implements multiple interface but can only extends a single abstract class. Thus interfaces can be used in multiple inheritance.
    
2. Each member of interface must be public, while in abstract classes, these can be public or private or package private or even protected.
    
3. interface can not have constructors while abstract class can have any number of constructors.

4. interface can not have instance variables while abstract class can contain multiple instance variables.

5. Apart from these, major difference is purpose of both, abstract classes are base classes which define common methods, variables so that multiple child class can reuse. Interface on other hand are used as a contract, which declared a set of method and ensures that a class which implement this interface have these functalities.

## 8. What is difference between method overloading and method overriding.
- A class can have more than one methods of same name but different signatures( means different no. of arguments or different types of arguments).    
- It is Known as compile time polymorphism in  because compiler during compilation of file make the decison that which method call will take place.
- If a subclass redefine a method which is already defined in it's parent class(same name and signature and return type also), then it overrides the method of parent class. This is called method overriding in java.
    
- Now if we call this method using an instance variable, then decison is taken by jvm at run time based on instance variable value. If reference variable have an object of child class, it will call the child class method but if it has an object of parent class, it will call parent class method.
    
- Overridden code in child class should not be more restrictive, bacause according to Liskov Substitution Principle a Parent class reference can refer to child class objects without breaking correctness of code. Now suppose a parent class reference containing the object of parent class which is let's say public and thus cod working fine. Now if we change this variable to refer some child class variables, code should also work fine, but if those methods are more restrictive (say private) then may be we are not able to call those methods which violates liskov principle.

## 9. What is default method in interface.
- A default method in interface has a default implementation unlike the abstract methods which don't have any implemtation.
- This allows us to add new methods on an existing interfaces without breaking up the code.

## 10. What is functional interface.
- An interface that contains only one abstract method is called as Functional Interface.

## 11. What is Exception. How to handle it.
- An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program, that disrupts the normal flow of the program's execution.
- Exception can be handled using try-catch block.

## 12. Types of Exception:
1. Checked Exceptions:
    - These type of exceptions are checked by compiler and application code must handle this either by try-catch or try-with resources or using Specify Requirement mechanism or else compiler will throw error and code will not be compiled.
    - SqlException, IOException, ClassNotFoundException
    
2. Unchecked Exceptions
    - These are exceptions which are internal to application, arised due to programming bugs, improper use of apis etc.
    - Usually application are not able to recover from it.
    - All classes inheriting from RunTimeException is unchecked exception.
