# Contents
1. What is java 
2. Features of java 
3. What are usage of java
4. How to run java code 
5. What is jdk, jre, jvm 
6. What is garbage collector
7. Why main method is static 

## 1. What is java?
- Java is a high level general purpose programming language.
- By term high level means, understood by humans.
- used for developing web applications,android applications, and other business applications.

## 2. Features of java 
1. Java is plateform independent.
2. Java is pure object oriented programming language.
3. It does the automatic memory cleaning by running a process known as java garbage collector.
4. It supports for concurrent programming.

## 3. What are usage of java
- It is Genral purpose programming language so we can develop web app, mobile app, or any other entripse applications.

## 4. How to run java code 
1. Write the java program into a text file and save with .java extension.
2. compile this java file using command `javac <fileName>`
3. If java program was valid, file will be succesfully compiled and a bytecode file (.class file) will be made by compiler.
4. Run this class file using command `java <FileNameWithout .java extension>`

## 5. JDK / JRE / JVM 
### 1.  jdk ( java development kit ) 
-It contains all tools needed to write, compile, debug and run java code. 
- It include javac, jvm ,jre,binary files needed to run java program.

### 2. jre (java run enviornment ) 
- It contains jvm and standard apis required by jvm to run the java program.

### 3. jvm ( java virtual machine ) 
-It is abstract machine and provides run time enviornment to execute java bytecode. 
- jvm communicates with os hardware and so it is plateform dependent as we need different versions of jvm on different os. To run bytecode on any machine we will only need jvm for that machine.

## 6. what is java garbage collector
- It is process, started by jvm.
- It runs periodically and remove the unneeded objects in our program thus frees the memory.

## 7. Why main method is public static void in java?
1. Main method is entry point for execution. Jvm call the main method first in our code. Now it should be public so that jvm can acess it.
2. It should be static so that jvm can call the main method without creating object.
3. It is void because logically it should not return any value.   
