
# Exception Handling 
- Exception means Abnormal Condition , Runtime error
- An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program, that disrupts the normal flow of the program's execution. 
-  When an error occurs within a method, the method creates an object and hands it off to the runtime system. The object, called an 
 	  exception object, contains information about the error, including its type and the state of the program when the error occurred. 
 	  Creating an exception object and handing it to the runtime system is called throwing an exception.

# Type of Exceptions
## Checked Exceptions:
- These type of exceptions are checked by compiler and a well written application code should handle this either by  Catch or 
 		Specify Requirement mechanism.
## Unchecked Exceptions
- Runtime Exception: 
 			These are exceptions which are internal to application, arised due to programming bugs, improper use of apis etc.
 			Usually application are not able to recover from it.

# Error
-  Error is a subclass in java which inherits from Throwable class and indicates a serious problem in our application and usually application are not able to 
	  recover from error and eventually stops running.
 			
# Hierrarchy of Exception classes 
- java.lang.throwable
- java.lang.Exception
	- SqlExcepiton (checked)
	- IoException  (checked)
	- ClassNotFoundException  (checked)
- RunTimeException
	- ArithmeticException
	- NullPointerException
	- IndexOutOfBoundException
- java.lang.Error
	- StackOverFlowError
	- OutOfMemoryError

# Handling Exceptions
- Checked Exceptions must be handled else compiler will throw error. Unchecked exceptions may or may not be handled.
- try-cath-finally block
- ```java
	try{
			// put code which can generate any exception here
		}
		cath(ExceptionType e){
			// Execute this code if a execution type arises
		}
		finally{
			// This section of code always executes. So any cleanup code is putted here.
		}
	``` 
		
- try with resources statement
- Resources are any object which need to be closed after it's use.
- ```java
	try( // open all resources needed to execute program here ){
			// as soon as execution of try block of code is done. It closes all the resources associated with it.
		}
		catch{
		}
		finally{
		}
	``` 
- specify all exceptions thrown by the method in method signature using throws keyword
- ```java
   void sampleMethod() throws Exception1, Exception2{
			// any method which will call this method must handle the exception1 and exception2 with try or catch block or else
			// it should declare in it's method declaration.
		}
	``` 
# How to throw a exception
- inside any code we can throw a exception using throw code
	- throw new ExceptionType("msg");
		
# Create your own exception
- create a class which extends any exception class and simply call the constructor of parent class.
		
