# Content 
1. Data Types 
2. Variables 
3. Output 
4. Input 
5. Type Casting 
6. Wrapper Classes for Primitives

## 1. Data Types 
  - Java is a typed language.
  - Typed languages are the languages in which we define the type of data type and it will be known by machine at the compile-time or at runtime.
  - In java there are two types, Primitive(8) and Non Primitive
  
### 1. Primitive (total 8):
1. `byte (1byte), short(2byte), int (4byte), long (8byte).`// 4 integer types (means to store integers). 
2. `float(4byte) , double (8byte)` //2 fractional types 
3. `char (2byte)`    // used to store 1 char
4. `boolean (1byte)` // used to store 2 values either true or false.

### 2. Non Primitive: (String, Array, Class, Interface)

## 2. Variables 
- Variables are used to store values in memory.
- Create:
  ```java
  // 1st way, don't provide any value, default 0 for number, null for refrence, false for boolean will be used.
  int a;
  boolean isPresent;

  //2nd way, declare and provide value both 
  int a=12;
  boolean isPresent = true;

  //3rd way, declare multiple
  int a1=1, a2=4, a3=9;
  ```
    
## 3.  Output
1. `System.out.print("Hello World");`   // This will print msg but not insert a new line

2. `System.out.println("Hello World");` // This will print msg and also insert a new line at end

3. `System` is a class, `out` is static member, `print and println` are function of out.

# Input 
- `Java util.Scanner` class provides method to take input
- code:
  ```java
  // 1st create scanner object 
  Scanner sc = new Scanner(System.in);

  // 2nd take input based on different data types 
  String s = sc.next();
  int a = sc.nextInt();
  float b = sc.nextFloat();
  boolean c = sc.nextBoolean();

  // 3rd: after taking all input, scanner is not needed now. so close it to free the resource.
  sc.close();
  ```
    
## 5. Type casting
- type casting means change the type of Variables.
- for e.g from int to long, float to double etc.

- 2 types:
  1. **Implicit typecast:**
    - typecast automatic performed by compiler internally.
    - e.g int a= 5, int b=3;
    - e.g int c=a/b;  // result of a/b will be 5/3 some thing 1.666... which is float, compiler internall will change it to int, which - is 1, so c=1.

  2. Explicit typecast:
    -  We have to typecast mannually in our program.
    - e.g double a = 8.0; int b = (int) a; 

## 6. Wrapper classes 
- For every Primitive type in java , there is wrapper class present.
- It is needed to work with genrics and collection framework in java.
- e.g for Primitive int there is Integer class, for long there is Long class ..etc.
- **AutoBoxing**: AutoBoxing is process in which java Primitive values are converted to wrapper classes automatically.
- **AutoUnBoxing**: It is process in which wrapper classes are converted to Primitive automatically.