# DOM 
- When a web page is loaded, the browser creates a Document Object Model of the page.
- The HTML DOM model is constructed as a tree of Objects (means every html tag is converted into js object)
- document is an object which represent whole page and contains methods and properties to works for dom.

# How to get html tag ele as js object 
1. Get by html id attribute
    - `const ele = document.getElementById("htmlId"); `
    - return the html tag whoose id matches with given id as js object.
    - Use this when there is need to get only one html element.

2. Get by css class attribute
    - `const elements = document.getElementsByClass("className");`
    - return all html ele who have class="className" in a list.
    - Use this when you have requirement to work multiple html elements 

3. Get by query selector
    - `let ele = document.querySelector(".className")` // acess by class for one element
    - `let ele = document.querySelectorAll(".className")` // acess by class for all element


# working with js object
- Once you get html element as js object. Returned js object contains many properties and methods which you can change values to affect 
      html appeareance, looing, almsot everything you can do as you can write code in html directly.

- Always first you have to get html ele as js object by running abov two methods. 


# Event in js 
- Event is an user action. So any thing user does on our web page (html file), they generate an event. 
- Some example of event are:
        user click a button or a link : click event
        user submit form using submit button : submit event
        user place mouse on any ele: mousehover event
        and many many more events...

- When any event occurs browser do a action, i.e for event browser knows what to do.
- If we want that some extra things should also be done on any event other than defualt which browser do, then we need to handle that event.

- Handling event requires 3 things to understand:
    -  ele : which is html ele on event occured. e.g if we are talking click event, then which button or link is going to clicked.
    -  type of event: once we know of this is an ele on where evenet is going to occured, now what type of event we are talking on that ele. for e.g :
            we decided that a particular button is element where we will attach event but many event will occur on that button like mousehover 
            click etc. Which type of event we want to capture, we need to decide. 
    -  function: it is normal js function. Now inside this function we write code which we want that this thing should happend when an event on a 
            particular element happens. like we want when one particular button is clicked then it's color should be changed to green. Now
            code of changing button color to green should be placed inside function. In short, this function will be executed each time when 
            event will occur.

    - Once you have those three things, one js object say obj, one event type (say eventType) and one function say funcName, register the
      event is using any one of ways:
        1. `obj.eventName = funcName;` or 
        2. `obj.addEventListener("eventName", funcName); // use this method mostly rather than 1st point way.`


# change html content using dom 
- later free time explore

# change css and appeareance using dom 
- later free time explore

# get and set form data using dom 
- later free time explore


