# Contents 
1. MultiThreading Basics in js 
2. Promise Object 
3. async and await 

## 1. MultiThreading Basics in js 
- JavaScript is single-threaded, which means it executes one operation at a time in a single sequence, or thread, of operations. 
- JS function divied in 2 categories:
	1. synchornous
	2. asynchornous
- synchornous function executes line by line i.e next line of code is executed only if previous line of code is succesfully executed.
- An asynchronous function in JavaScript is a function that does not block the main execution thread while it is running. It allows other code to continue executing while the asynchronous function is running in the background and once it completes, we can use the result using promise object.
- async function run in main thread only, but using the concept of promise and call back, it gives an illusion of concurrency.
- If we need to perform cpu intensive task, we need to create another worker thread and perform that task there.

## 2. Promise
- A Promise is an object which represents completion or failure of a async operation. It is a solution to callback hell.
- Promises solve a fundamental flaw with the callback pyramid of doom, by catching all errors, even thrown exceptions and programming errors
- It has 3 states of promise:
	1. Pending : initially when promise object is returned
	2. Fullfilled : When promise has been fullfilled succesfully with a fullfilled value
	3. Rejected : when promise is rejected with a reason message.
- A promise is settled if either it is fullfilled or rejected.
- A promise is resolved if it is settled or depending on another promise using then method.
- Working with Promise:
	```JavaScript
	/* 
		1. Mannualy Creating a promise object using constructor
		- constructor takes a callback as argument, which also takes 2 callbacks resolve and reject.
		- call resolve when operation succeds.
		- call reject when operation fails.
	*/
	let promise = new Promise(function(resolve, reject){
     	//do something
	});

	/*
		2. Work with a available promise object usint then method.
		- then is invoken when promise is succesfully settled (either fullfilled or rejected)
		- It takes 2 callback function, one for fullfilled case and another optional for rejected case.
	*/
	promise 
		.then(function(result){}, function(error));

	/*
		3. Cath the error using more readable syntax.
		- catch() method will invoked if promise is rejected or a error occured.
	*/
	promise
		.then((result)=>{

		})
		.catch((error)=>{

		})

	/*
		4. Woking with Promise chain 
	*/
	const requestPromise = Fetch(url);
	requestPromise
		.then((response)=>response.json())
		.then((data)=>{
			// work with data and do'nt return anything, thus end of promise chain.
		})
		.catch((error)=>{
			// Handle the error occuring at any stage.
		})
	```


## Synchronous:
- The code runs in a particular sequence of instructions given in the program.

## Callback
- A callback is a function passed as an argument in another function.

## Callback Hell
- Nested callbacks stacked below one another forming a  pyramid structure. It becomes diffucult to understand and manage.
	
## 3. async and await
- Due to synchronous programming some imp instructions get blocked due to some previous instructions, which cause the delay. 
- Asyncronous code exucution allows to execute next instructions immediately and doesnot block the flow.
- An async function declaration creates an AsyncFunction object. 
- Each time when an async function is called, it returns a new Promise which will be resolved with the value returned by the async function, or rejected with an exception uncaught within the async function.
- async is used to make code better readability and to work with promise based code without chaining.
- await works only inside async func.
- An async function can contain 0 or more await expression.
- await is used to call another async function inside async function, and wait for the called function to complete and return a value.
- working with async and await:
	```JavaScript
	async function func(){
		const response = await Fetch(url);
	}
	```


